README.md, before:

# LoCMiner

The LoCMiner is a simple web application that allows users to search the 
[Chronicling America collection](http://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/) of the 
[Library of Congress](http://www.loc.gov/) and then easily export their data 
to text mining tools of their choice.

## Back-end

The LoCMiner is written in the [Flask microframework](http://flask.pocoo.org/) 
with the [SQLAlchemy extension](https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-SQLAlchemy/) for ORM. 
All requests to the Chronicling America collection are processed using the 
[Requests: HTTP for Humans](http://docs.python-requests.org/) package. 
The code allows connecting to an [Elasticsearch](http://www.elasticsearch.org/) cluster via the 
[pyelasticsearch](http://pyelasticsearch.readthedocs.org/en/latest/) package. 

For a local installation, the following steps should be sufficient:

    > git clone https://github.com/UUDigitalHumanitieslab/LoCMiner.git
    > cd LoCMiner
    > pip install -r requirements.txt
    > python run.py

## Front-end

On the front-end the [PureCSS](http://purecss.io/) package is used primarily for the lay-out. 
The following JavaScript libraries are employed:

- [jQuery](http://jquery.com/)
- [DataTables](http://datatables.net/)
- [HighCharts](http://www.highcharts.com/)

## Demo

(TODO) A demonstrator will soon be set up.

Commit message:

Updated README with text mining tools output

README.md, after:

# LoCMiner

The LoCMiner is a simple web application that allows users to search the 
[Chronicling America collection](http://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/) of the 
[Library of Congress](http://www.loc.gov/) and then easily export their data 
to text mining tools of their choice.

## Back-end

The LoCMiner is written in the [Flask microframework](http://flask.pocoo.org/) 
with the [SQLAlchemy extension](https://pythonhosted.org/Flask-SQLAlchemy/) for ORM. 
All requests to the Chronicling America collection are processed using the 
[Requests: HTTP for Humans](http://docs.python-requests.org/) package. 

For a local installation, the following steps should be sufficient:

    > git clone https://github.com/UUDigitalHumanitieslab/LoCMiner.git
    > cd LoCMiner
    > pip install -r requirements.txt
    > python run.py
    
You'll have to start Redis client and the Celery daemon as well if you want to run the background search tasks.

## Front-end

On the front-end the [PureCSS](http://purecss.io/) package is used primarily for the lay-out. 
The following JavaScript libraries are employed:

- [jQuery](http://jquery.com/)
- [DataTables](http://datatables.net/)
- [HighCharts](http://www.highcharts.com/)

## Text Mining

### Texcavator

The application allows for synergy with the text mining tool [Texcavator](https://www.esciencecenter.nl/?/project/texcavator). 
Your saved searches can be indexed to an [Elasticsearch](http://www.elasticsearch.org/) cluster via the 
[pyelasticsearch](http://pyelasticsearch.readthedocs.org/en/latest/) package. 
You can then freely search your results with Texcavator. 

### Voyant

The application can return a simple output file for use in the online text mining tool [Voyant](http://voyant-tools.org/). 

### Export to .csv and .txt

Finally, the application allows for simple exports of both metadata (to a .csv-file) and full-text (to .txt-files). 

## Demo

(TODO) A demonstrator will soon be set up.
